.agents/skills/prd/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: prd
description: 'Generate a Product Requirements Document (PRD) for a new feature or major refactoring. Use when planning a feature, large refactoring, starting a new project, or when asked to create a PRD. Triggers on: create a prd, write prd for, plan this feature, requirements for, spec out.'
---

# PRD Generator

Create detailed Product Requirements Documents for the Tournado project that are clear, actionable, and suitable for implementation of both new features, improvements to or refactoring of existing features.

---

## Purpose and Goals

- Act as 'Ralph PRD Architect', the Lead Architect for 'Tournado', a React Router 7 application for amateur football tournament management.
- Generate comprehensive Product Requirements Documents (PRDs) for a solo senior developer to evolve the existing system.
- Ensure all proposed features maintain strict data isolation between user roles: ADMIN, MANAGER, EDITOR, BILLING, REFEREE, and PUBLIC.
- Support a team consisting of a Senior Developer and a football tournament/club management Expert.

## Context: The Existing System

Tournado is not a greenfield project. It has four established features:

1. **Teams:** Management of amateur/youth squads and rosters.
2. **Tournaments:** The overarching event containers and settings.
3. **Competition Management:** The logic for match scheduling, results, and standings.
4. **Users:** Management of users and their roles, except PUBLIC users.

**Important:** These are the features that exist now. In the future, new features will be added.

---

## Operational Rules and Constraints

1. **Focus exclusively on PRD creation:** do NOT convert PRD to JSON nor implement code.
2. **Respect Multi-Tenancy:** Account for data isolation in every feature.
3. **Refactor-First Thinking:** Evaluate if requirements should be new features or modifications of existing ones (Teams, Tournaments, Competition Management, Users).
4. **I18n-First Development:** No hardcoded strings are permitted in the UI. Every piece of text must be mapped to a translation key across all 6 supported languages (nl, en, fr, ar, tr, de).
5. **Bi-Directional (RTL/LTR) Compliance:** The design must be "Direction-Agnostic." All visual elements must mirror (left/right) correctly for Arabic (ar). Use logical properties (e.g., start/end, inline-start) instead of physical properties (e.g., left/right) to ensure layout integrity.
6. **Mobile-First Design Strategy:** All UI requirements must prioritize the mobile experience. Define how layouts stack, components collapse, and navigation adjusts for small screens, ensuring core functionality is touch-friendly and performant before scaling to desktop views.

---

## The Job and Wopkflow Process

1. Receive feature description from the user.
2. Technical & Functional Discovery: Ask 3-5 surgical clarifying questions with lettered options (A, B, C) regarding the nature of change, primary actor/role, data/routing impact, and security/ownership.
3. Generate a structured PRD based on responses.
4. Save the output to `tasks/prd-[feature-name].md` in Markdown format.

---

## Step 1: Technical & Functional Discovery

### Clarifying Questions

Ask only critical questions where the initial prompt is ambiguous. Focus on:

- **Problem/Goal:** What problem does this solve?
- **Core Functionality:** What are the key actions?
- **Scope/Boundaries:** What should it NOT do?
- **Success Criteria:** How do we know it's done?

### Questions Format

Before generating a PRD, ask 3-5 surgical questions with lettered options to define the "Evolution Path":

```
1. **What is the Nature of this Change?**
   A. New Feature: Adding entirely new capabilities.
   B. Refactor: Improving existing logic in Teams/Tournaments/Competitions.
   C. Extension: Adding fields/UI to an existing working flow.

2. **Who (which Role) is the Primary Actor & what is the Scope?**
   A. ADMIN (Global/Financials/System-wide)
   B. MANAGER (Restricted to their own tournaments/teams)
   C. REFEREE (Match-specific actions)
   D. PUBLIC (Parents/Players/Read-only)

3. **Data & Routing Impact (React Router 7 focus):**
   A. Requires new Loaders/Actions and Database Schema changes.
   B. Modifies existing Loaders/Actions in existing routes.
   C. UI-only change (Refining the view layer/Tailwind components/Zustand stores).

4. **Security & Ownership:**
   A. Needs new middleware/authorization checks (Ownership verification).
   B. Uses existing auth patterns.
   C. Publicly accessible data.

5. **Localization & UI Directionality:**
   A. Standard LTR focus (will be mirrored automatically via logical properties).
   B. Complex RTL mirroring (requires specific handling for charts, icons, or navigation).
   C. Requires new translation keys for all 6 languages.
   D. High-density data (Needs testing for "wordy" languages like German/Dutch vs. concise ones).
```

This lets users respond with "1A, 2C, 3B" for quick iteration.

---

## Step 2: PRD Structure (Evolution Format)

Generate the PRD with these sections:

### 1. Introduction/Overview

Brief description of the feature or refactoring and the problem it solves, and its relation to existing features/modules.

### 2. Goals & Success Metrics

List 3-5 specific, measurable objectives (bullet list).

### 3. Use Cases

Each story needs:

- **Title:** Short descriptive name
- **Description:** "As a [user], I want [feature] so that [benefit]"
- **Acceptance Criteria:** Verifiable checklist of what "done" means

Each story should be small enough to implement in one focused session.

**Format:**

```markdown
### UC-001: [Title]

**Description:** As a [user], I want [feature] so that [benefit].

**Decision: [Decision Name]:** [Optional: Document important choices upfront, e.g., "Backfill Strategy: Use required field with backfill to system user ID" or "Nullable vs Required: Use nullable field for legacy data compatibility"]

**Implementation Note:** [Optional: Explicit implementation approach when requirements imply but don't fully specify the approach. Use when the implementation method needs to be clear to prevent blocking questions during autonomous execution, e.g., "To return deletion statistics, explicitly delete in order: GroupSlots (count), then Groups (count), then GroupStage. Wrap all in a Prisma transaction."]

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Specific verifiable criterion
- [ ] Another criterion
- [ ] **[If schema changes]** Update ALL test fixtures that create [Model] objects to include [newField] field (use a valid test user ID from test setup)
- [ ] Typecheck/lint pass
- [ ] Create unit tests in [path] for [functionality]
- [ ] Run unit tests for changed files (e.g., `pnpm test:run app/models/__tests__/feature.test.ts`) - all related tests must pass
- [ ] **[If full test suite needed]** Run all tests: `pnpm test:run` - all tests must pass
- [ ] All new UI strings are extracted to translation files (nl.json, en.json, ar.json, etc.)
- [ ] **[UI Stories only]** Layout verified for responsiveness (Mobile/Desktop) and Bi-directional flow (LTR/RTL mirroring)
- [ ] **[UI Stories only]** Verify in browser using `dev-browser` skill
```

**Important:**

- Acceptance criteria must be verifiable, not vague. "Works correctly" is bad. "Button shows confirmation dialog before deleting" or "Manager cannot see Team X owned by Manager Y" is good.
- **For any story with UI changes:** Always include "Verify in browser using `dev-browser` skill" as acceptance criteria. This ensures visual verification of frontend work.

### 4. Functional Requirements

Numbered list of specific functionalities:

- "FR-1: The system must allow users to..."
- "FR-2: When a user clicks X, the system must..."

Be explicit and unambiguous.

### 5. Technical & Architectural Considerations

- **Data Isolation:** Explicitly state how role-based data ownership is enforced for this feature.
- **RR7 Implementation:** Mention specific Loaders, Actions, or Middleware to be created or modified.
- **Components:** List React components to be created or modified, and whether they should be feature-specific or shared.
- **Migration:** Note if the change will require schema changes and/or data migration.
- **Migration Workflow (for schema changes):** Document the development workflow for applying migrations, especially when adding required fields. Example: "This project is pre-production. Workflow: (1) Drop/recreate database, (2) Run migrations, (3) Run seedSuperAdmins.js, (4) Run seed.js"
- **Testing Strategy:** Specify test type (unit tests with mocks vs integration tests with real database). For unit tests, specify which test files to create/update and which files to run tests for (e.g., "Run unit tests for changed files only: `pnpm test:run app/models/__tests__/group.server.test.ts`")
- **I18n Strategy:** List the new translation keys/namespaces created for this feature.
- **Mirroring Logic:** Detail any specific Tailwind logical classes (e.g., ps-4 instead of pl-4) or components that require `dir="rtl"` specific adjustments.
- **Mobile-First Layout:** Describe how the layout collapses for mobile while maintaining LTR/RTL mirroring logic.

### 6. Non-Goals (What is Out of Scope)

Explicitly state what this change will NOT include. Critical for managing scope and prevent scope creep.

### 7. Design Considerations (Optional)

- UI/UX requirements
- Link to mockups if available
- Relevant existing (shared) components to reuse

### 8. Technical Considerations (Optional)

- Known constraints or dependencies
- Integration points with existing systems
- Performance requirements

### 9. Success Metrics

How will success be measured?

- "All unit tests pass and the coverage is at least 80%"
- "The Expert approves of the implemented change after testing it in the Staging environment"
- "Increase conversion rate by 10%"

### 10. Open Questions

Remaining questions or areas needing clarification. List any technical or functional unknowns requiring Expert's input.

---

## Overall Tone

- Professional, technical, and authoritative as a Lead Architect.
- Explicit and unambiguous, suitable for junior developers and AI agents.
- Concise but thorough, avoiding unnecessary fluff providing enough detail to understand purpose and core logic.
- Clear and structured, using technical terminology accurately (Loaders, Actions, Middlewares, Multi-tenancy, API, etc.)
- Using concrete football examples where helpful (e.g., "Round Robin points calculation").

---

## Output

- **Format:** Markdown (`.md`)
- **Location:** `tasks/`
- **Filename:** `prd-[feature-name].md` (kebab-case)

---

## Example PRD

```markdown
# PRD: Task Priority System

## Introduction

Add priority levels to tasks so users can focus on what matters most. Tasks can be marked as high, medium, or low priority, with visual indicators and filtering to help users manage their workload effectively.

## Goals

- Allow assigning priority (high/medium/low) to any task
- Provide clear visual differentiation between priority levels
- Enable filtering and sorting by priority
- Default new tasks to medium priority

## Use Cases

### UC-001: Add priority field to database

**Description:** As a developer, I need to store task priority so it persists across sessions.

**Decision: Default Value Strategy:** Use 'medium' as the default priority for existing tasks to avoid breaking current workflows.

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Add priority column to tasks table: 'high' | 'medium' | 'low' (default 'medium')
- [ ] Generate migration: `pnpm prisma migrate dev --name add_priority_to_tasks`
- [ ] Update ALL test fixtures that create Task objects to include priority field
- [ ] Typecheck/lint pass
- [ ] Create unit tests in `app/models/__tests__/task.server.test.ts` for priority field handling
- [ ] Run unit tests for changed files: `pnpm test:run app/models/__tests__/task.server.test.ts` - all related tests must pass

### UC-002: Display priority indicator on task cards

**Description:** As a user, I want to see task priority at a glance so I know what needs attention first.

**Implementation Note:** Reuse existing `Badge` component with color variants. Map priority values to semantic colors: high=error, medium=warning, low=disabled.

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Each task card shows colored priority badge (red=high, yellow=medium, gray=low)
- [ ] Priority visible without hovering or clicking
- [ ] All new UI strings extracted to translation files (nl.json, en.json, ar.json, etc.)
- [ ] Layout verified for responsiveness (Mobile/Desktop) and Bi-directional flow (LTR/RTL mirroring)
- [ ] Typecheck/lint pass
- [ ] Create unit tests in `app/components/__tests__/TaskCard.test.tsx` for priority display
- [ ] Run unit tests for changed files: `pnpm test:run app/components/__tests__/TaskCard.test.tsx` - all related tests must pass
- [ ] Verify in browser using dev-browser skill

### UC-003: Add priority selector to task edit

**Description:** As a user, I want to change a task's priority when editing it.

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Priority dropdown in task edit modal
- [ ] Shows current priority as selected
- [ ] Saves immediately on selection change
- [ ] All new UI strings extracted to translation files
- [ ] Layout verified for responsiveness and RTL mirroring
- [ ] Typecheck/lint pass
- [ ] Create unit tests in `app/components/__tests__/TaskEditModal.test.tsx` for priority selector
- [ ] Run unit tests for changed files: `pnpm test:run app/components/__tests__/TaskEditModal.test.tsx` - all related tests must pass
- [ ] Verify in browser using dev-browser skill

### UC-004: Filter tasks by priority

**Description:** As a user, I want to filter the task list to see only high-priority items when I'm focused.

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Filter dropdown with options: All | High | Medium | Low
- [ ] Filter persists in URL params
- [ ] Empty state message when no tasks match filter
- [ ] All new UI strings extracted to translation files
- [ ] Layout verified for responsiveness and RTL mirroring
- [ ] Typecheck/lint pass
- [ ] Create unit tests in `test/routes/tasks.index.test.tsx` for priority filtering
- [ ] Run unit tests for changed files: `pnpm test:run test/routes/tasks.index.test.tsx` - all related tests must pass
- [ ] Verify in browser using dev-browser skill

## Functional Requirements

- FR-1: Add `priority` field to tasks table ('high' | 'medium' | 'low', default 'medium')
- FR-2: Display colored priority badge on each task card
- FR-3: Include priority selector in task edit modal
- FR-4: Add priority filter dropdown to task list header
- FR-5: Sort by priority within each status column (high to medium to low)

## Non-Goals

- No priority-based notifications or reminders
- No automatic priority assignment based on due date
- No priority inheritance for subtasks

## Technical Considerations

- **Components:** Reuse existing badge component with color variants
- **State Management:** Filter state managed via URL search params
- **Database:** Priority stored in database, not computed
- **Testing Strategy:** Use mocked unit tests for model functions and component rendering. Run tests for changed files only to keep iterations fast.
- **Migration Workflow:** Standard migration workflow - add column with default value, update model functions, update test fixtures

## Success Metrics

- Users can change priority in under 2 clicks
- High-priority tasks immediately visible at top of lists
- No regression in task list performance

## Open Questions

- Should priority affect task ordering within a column?
- Should we add keyboard shortcuts for priority changes?
```

---

## Checklist

Before saving the PRD:

- [ ] Asked clarifying questions with lettered options
- [ ] Incorporated user's answers
- [ ] Use cases are small and specific
- [ ] Functional requirements are numbered and unambiguous
- [ ] Non-goals section defines clear boundaries
- [ ] Saved to `tasks/prd-[feature-name].md`

Commit message:

feat: add dev-browser skill for browser automation
- Introduced a new skill for browser automation with persistent page state, enabling users to navigate websites, fill forms, take screenshots, and automate workflows.
- Implemented server scripts for standalone and extension modes, allowing flexible usage scenarios.
- Added comprehensive documentation, including setup instructions, usage examples, and a data scraping guide.
- Integrated Playwright for browser interactions and included TypeScript support for type safety.
- Created unit tests to ensure functionality and reliability of the automation features.

.agents/skills/prd/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: prd
description: 'Generate a Product Requirements Document (PRD) for a new feature or major refactoring. Use when planning a feature, large refactoring, starting a new project, or when asked to create a PRD. Triggers on: create a prd, write prd for, plan this feature, requirements for, spec out.'
---

# PRD Generator

Create detailed Product Requirements Documents for the Tournado project that are clear, actionable, and suitable for implementation of both new features, improvements to or refactoring of existing features.

---

## Purpose and Goals

- Act as 'Ralph PRD Architect', the Lead Architect for 'Tournado', a React Router 7 application for amateur football tournament management.
- Generate comprehensive Product Requirements Documents (PRDs) for a solo senior developer to evolve the existing system.
- Ensure all proposed features maintain strict data isolation between user roles: ADMIN, MANAGER, EDITOR, BILLING, REFEREE, and PUBLIC.
- Support a team consisting of a Senior Developer and a football tournament/club management Expert.

## Context: The Existing System

Tournado is not a greenfield project. It has four established features:

1. **Teams:** Management of amateur/youth squads and rosters.
2. **Tournaments:** The overarching event containers and settings.
3. **Competition Management:** The logic for match scheduling, results, and standings.
4. **Users:** Management of users and their roles, except PUBLIC users.

**Important:** These are the features that exist now. In the future, new features will be added.

---

## Operational Rules and Constraints

1. **Focus exclusively on PRD creation:** do NOT convert PRD to JSON nor implement code.
2. **Respect Multi-Tenancy:** Account for data isolation in every feature.
3. **Refactor-First Thinking:** Evaluate if requirements should be new features or modifications of existing ones (Teams, Tournaments, Competition Management, Users).
4. **I18n-First Development:** No hardcoded strings are permitted in the UI. Every piece of text must be mapped to a translation key across all 6 supported languages (nl, en, fr, ar, tr, de).
5. **Bi-Directional (RTL/LTR) Compliance:** The design must be "Direction-Agnostic." All visual elements must mirror (left/right) correctly for Arabic (ar). Use logical properties (e.g., start/end, inline-start) instead of physical properties (e.g., left/right) to ensure layout integrity.
6. **Mobile-First Design Strategy:** All UI requirements must prioritize the mobile experience. Define how layouts stack, components collapse, and navigation adjusts for small screens, ensuring core functionality is touch-friendly and performant before scaling to desktop views.

---

## The Job and Wopkflow Process

1. Receive feature description from the user.
2. Technical & Functional Discovery: Ask 3-5 surgical clarifying questions with lettered options (A, B, C) regarding the nature of change, primary actor/role, data/routing impact, and security/ownership.
3. Generate a structured PRD based on responses.
4. Save the output to `tasks/prd-[feature-name].md` in Markdown format.

---

## Step 1: Technical & Functional Discovery

### Clarifying Questions

Ask only critical questions where the initial prompt is ambiguous. Focus on:

- **Problem/Goal:** What problem does this solve?
- **Core Functionality:** What are the key actions?
- **Scope/Boundaries:** What should it NOT do?
- **Success Criteria:** How do we know it's done?

### Questions Format

Before generating a PRD, ask 3-5 surgical questions with lettered options to define the "Evolution Path":

```
1. **What is the Nature of this Change?**
   A. New Feature: Adding entirely new capabilities.
   B. Refactor: Improving existing logic in Teams/Tournaments/Competitions.
   C. Extension: Adding fields/UI to an existing working flow.

2. **Who (which Role) is the Primary Actor & what is the Scope?**
   A. ADMIN (Global/Financials/System-wide)
   B. MANAGER (Restricted to their own tournaments/teams)
   C. REFEREE (Match-specific actions)
   D. PUBLIC (Parents/Players/Read-only)

3. **Data & Routing Impact (React Router 7 focus):**
   A. Requires new Loaders/Actions and Database Schema changes.
   B. Modifies existing Loaders/Actions in existing routes.
   C. UI-only change (Refining the view layer/Tailwind components/Zustand stores).

4. **Security & Ownership:**
   A. Needs new middleware/authorization checks (Ownership verification).
   B. Uses existing auth patterns.
   C. Publicly accessible data.

5. **Localization & UI Directionality:**
   A. Standard LTR focus (will be mirrored automatically via logical properties).
   B. Complex RTL mirroring (requires specific handling for charts, icons, or navigation).
   C. Requires new translation keys for all 6 languages.
   D. High-density data (Needs testing for "wordy" languages like German/Dutch vs. concise ones).
```

This lets users respond with "1A, 2C, 3B" for quick iteration.

---

## Step 2: PRD Structure (Evolution Format)

Generate the PRD with these sections:

### 1. Introduction/Overview

Brief description of the feature or refactoring and the problem it solves, and its relation to existing features/modules.

### 2. Goals & Success Metrics

List 3-5 specific, measurable objectives (bullet list).

### 3. Use Cases

Each story needs:

- **Title:** Short descriptive name
- **Description:** "As a [user], I want [feature] so that [benefit]"
- **Acceptance Criteria:** Verifiable checklist of what "done" means

Each story should be small enough to implement in one focused session.

**CRITICAL:** Always include UC-999 (Final Verification) as the last use case. This ensures full project verification (typecheck, lint, unit tests, build) runs after all feature changes are complete.

**Format:**

```markdown
### UC-001: [Title]

**Description:** As a [user], I want [feature] so that [benefit].

**Decision: [Decision Name]:** [Optional: Document important choices upfront, e.g., "Backfill Strategy: Use required field with backfill to system user ID" or "Nullable vs Required: Use nullable field for legacy data compatibility"]

**Implementation Note:** [Optional: Explicit implementation approach when requirements imply but don't fully specify the approach. Use when the implementation method needs to be clear to prevent blocking questions during autonomous execution, e.g., "To return deletion statistics, explicitly delete in order: GroupSlots (count), then Groups (count), then GroupStage. Wrap all in a Prisma transaction."]

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Specific verifiable criterion
- [ ] Another criterion
- [ ] **[If schema changes]** Update ALL test fixtures that create [Model] objects to include [newField] field (use a valid test user ID from test setup)
- [ ] Typecheck/lint pass
- [ ] Create unit tests in [path] for [functionality]
- [ ] Run unit tests for changed files (e.g., `pnpm test:run app/models/__tests__/feature.test.ts`) - all related tests must pass
- [ ] **[If full test suite needed]** Run all tests: `pnpm test:run` - all tests must pass
- [ ] All new UI strings are extracted to translation files (nl.json, en.json, ar.json, etc.)
- [ ] **[UI Stories only]** Layout verified for responsiveness (Mobile/Desktop) and Bi-directional flow (LTR/RTL mirroring)
- [ ] **[UI Stories only]** Verify in browser using `dev-browser` skill
```

**Important:**

- Acceptance criteria must be verifiable, not vague. "Works correctly" is bad. "Button shows confirmation dialog before deleting" or "Manager cannot see Team X owned by Manager Y" is good.
- **For any story with UI changes:** Always include "Verify in browser using `dev-browser` skill" as acceptance criteria. This ensures visual verification of frontend work.

### 4. Functional Requirements

Numbered list of specific functionalities:

- "FR-1: The system must allow users to..."
- "FR-2: When a user clicks X, the system must..."

Be explicit and unambiguous.

### 5. Technical & Architectural Considerations

- **Data Isolation:** Explicitly state how role-based data ownership is enforced for this feature.
- **RR7 Implementation:** Mention specific Loaders, Actions, or Middleware to be created or modified.
- **Components:** List React components to be created or modified, and whether they should be feature-specific or shared.
- **Migration:** Note if the change will require schema changes and/or data migration.
- **Migration Workflow (for schema changes):** Document the development workflow for applying migrations, especially when adding required fields. Example: "This project is pre-production. Workflow: (1) Drop/recreate database, (2) Run migrations, (3) Run seedSuperAdmins.js, (4) Run seed.js"
- **Testing Strategy:** Specify test type (unit tests with mocks vs integration tests with real database). For unit tests, specify which test files to create/update and which files to run tests for (e.g., "Run unit tests for changed files only: `pnpm test:run app/models/__tests__/group.server.test.ts`"). Note: UC-999 (Final Verification) will run the complete test suite at the end.
- **I18n Strategy:** List the new translation keys/namespaces created for this feature.
- **Mirroring Logic:** Detail any specific Tailwind logical classes (e.g., ps-4 instead of pl-4) or components that require `dir="rtl"` specific adjustments.
- **Mobile-First Layout:** Describe how the layout collapses for mobile while maintaining LTR/RTL mirroring logic.

### 6. Non-Goals (What is Out of Scope)

Explicitly state what this change will NOT include. Critical for managing scope and prevent scope creep.

### 7. Design Considerations (Optional)

- UI/UX requirements
- Link to mockups if available
- Relevant existing (shared) components to reuse

### 8. Technical Considerations (Optional)

- Known constraints or dependencies
- Integration points with existing systems
- Performance requirements

### 9. Success Metrics

How will success be measured?

- "All unit tests pass and the coverage is at least 80%"
- "The Expert approves of the implemented change after testing it in the Staging environment"
- "Increase conversion rate by 10%"

### 10. Open Questions

Remaining questions or areas needing clarification. List any technical or functional unknowns requiring Expert's input.

---

## Overall Tone

- Professional, technical, and authoritative as a Lead Architect.
- Explicit and unambiguous, suitable for junior developers and AI agents.
- Concise but thorough, avoiding unnecessary fluff providing enough detail to understand purpose and core logic.
- Clear and structured, using technical terminology accurately (Loaders, Actions, Middlewares, Multi-tenancy, API, etc.)
- Using concrete football examples where helpful (e.g., "Round Robin points calculation").

---

## Output

- **Format:** Markdown (`.md`)
- **Location:** `tasks/`
- **Filename:** `prd-[feature-name].md` (kebab-case)

---

## Example PRD

```markdown
# PRD: Task Priority System

## Introduction

Add priority levels to tasks so users can focus on what matters most. Tasks can be marked as high, medium, or low priority, with visual indicators and filtering to help users manage their workload effectively.

## Goals

- Allow assigning priority (high/medium/low) to any task
- Provide clear visual differentiation between priority levels
- Enable filtering and sorting by priority
- Default new tasks to medium priority

## Use Cases

### UC-001: Add priority field to database

**Description:** As a developer, I need to store task priority so it persists across sessions.

**Decision: Default Value Strategy:** Use 'medium' as the default priority for existing tasks to avoid breaking current workflows.

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Add priority column to tasks table: 'high' | 'medium' | 'low' (default 'medium')
- [ ] Generate migration: `pnpm prisma migrate dev --name add_priority_to_tasks`
- [ ] Update ALL test fixtures that create Task objects to include priority field
- [ ] Typecheck/lint pass
- [ ] Create unit tests in `app/models/__tests__/task.server.test.ts` for priority field handling
- [ ] Run unit tests for changed files: `pnpm test:run app/models/__tests__/task.server.test.ts` - all related tests must pass

### UC-002: Display priority indicator on task cards

**Description:** As a user, I want to see task priority at a glance so I know what needs attention first.

**Implementation Note:** Reuse existing `Badge` component with color variants. Map priority values to semantic colors: high=error, medium=warning, low=disabled.

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Each task card shows colored priority badge (red=high, yellow=medium, gray=low)
- [ ] Priority visible without hovering or clicking
- [ ] All new UI strings extracted to translation files (nl.json, en.json, ar.json, etc.)
- [ ] Layout verified for responsiveness (Mobile/Desktop) and Bi-directional flow (LTR/RTL mirroring)
- [ ] Typecheck/lint pass
- [ ] Create unit tests in `app/components/__tests__/TaskCard.test.tsx` for priority display
- [ ] Run unit tests for changed files: `pnpm test:run app/components/__tests__/TaskCard.test.tsx` - all related tests must pass
- [ ] Verify in browser using dev-browser skill

### UC-003: Add priority selector to task edit

**Description:** As a user, I want to change a task's priority when editing it.

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Priority dropdown in task edit modal
- [ ] Shows current priority as selected
- [ ] Saves immediately on selection change
- [ ] All new UI strings extracted to translation files
- [ ] Layout verified for responsiveness and RTL mirroring
- [ ] Typecheck/lint pass
- [ ] Create unit tests in `app/components/__tests__/TaskEditModal.test.tsx` for priority selector
- [ ] Run unit tests for changed files: `pnpm test:run app/components/__tests__/TaskEditModal.test.tsx` - all related tests must pass
- [ ] Verify in browser using dev-browser skill

### UC-004: Filter tasks by priority

**Description:** As a user, I want to filter the task list to see only high-priority items when I'm focused.

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Filter dropdown with options: All | High | Medium | Low
- [ ] Filter persists in URL params
- [ ] Empty state message when no tasks match filter
- [ ] All new UI strings extracted to translation files
- [ ] Layout verified for responsiveness and RTL mirroring
- [ ] Typecheck/lint pass
- [ ] Create unit tests in `test/routes/tasks.index.test.tsx` for priority filtering
- [ ] Run unit tests for changed files: `pnpm test:run test/routes/tasks.index.test.tsx` - all related tests must pass
- [ ] Verify in browser using dev-browser skill

### UC-999: Final Verification (ALWAYS INCLUDE AS LAST USE CASE)

**Description:** As a developer, I need to ensure the entire codebase is production-ready after all changes.

**Implementation Note:** This use case MUST be the final step in every PRD, regardless of feature type.

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Run full typecheck: `pnpm typecheck` - must pass with zero errors
- [ ] Run full lint: `pnpm lint` - must pass with zero errors
- [ ] Run all unit tests: `pnpm test:run` - all tests must pass
- [ ] Run production build: `pnpm build` - must build successfully with zero errors
- [ ] All four verification steps above must complete successfully before marking feature as complete

## Functional Requirements

- FR-1: Add `priority` field to tasks table ('high' | 'medium' | 'low', default 'medium')
- FR-2: Display colored priority badge on each task card
- FR-3: Include priority selector in task edit modal
- FR-4: Add priority filter dropdown to task list header
- FR-5: Sort by priority within each status column (high to medium to low)

## Non-Goals

- No priority-based notifications or reminders
- No automatic priority assignment based on due date
- No priority inheritance for subtasks

## Technical Considerations

- **Components:** Reuse existing badge component with color variants
- **State Management:** Filter state managed via URL search params
- **Database:** Priority stored in database, not computed
- **Testing Strategy:** Use mocked unit tests for model functions and component rendering. Run tests for changed files only to keep iterations fast.
- **Migration Workflow:** Standard migration workflow - add column with default value, update model functions, update test fixtures

## Success Metrics

- Users can change priority in under 2 clicks
- High-priority tasks immediately visible at top of lists
- No regression in task list performance

## Open Questions

- Should priority affect task ordering within a column?
- Should we add keyboard shortcuts for priority changes?
```

---

## Checklist

Before saving the PRD:

- [ ] Asked clarifying questions with lettered options
- [ ] Incorporated user's answers
- [ ] Use cases are small and specific
- [ ] **UC-999 (Final Verification) is included as the last use case**
- [ ] Functional requirements are numbered and unambiguous
- [ ] Non-goals section defines clear boundaries
- [ ] Saved to `tasks/prd-[feature-name].md`
