TODO.md, before:

# What to do next

## 1. Checks

- non-test environment: replace inline imports like `const { addEmailToOutbox } = await import('../../mocks/handlers/emails.js')`
- do we have direct DOM manipulations in our Playwright tests instead of Page Object Model usage?
- add getServerT() to all modules that deal with server side errors (see users.\_indext.tsx)
   - **Server-Side Translations**: Use `getServerT(request)` in all server
      - actions/loaders for localized error messages and server-generated content;
      - respects user's language preference from cookie
        (see `.cursor/rules/PRD.mdc` around line 643)

## 2. To show a block with 2 teams that are going to play a match, you need:

- From Match model (schema.prisma:121-137):
   - id, date, time, location, status
   - homeTeamId, awayTeamId

- From Team model (schema.prisma:91-105):
   - id, name, clubName, category, division

- Optional from MatchScore model (schema.prisma:139-147):
   - homeTeamScore, awayTeamScore (if match is played)

So the essential data structure would be:

```ts
{
   match: {
   id: string,
   date: DateTime,
   time: DateTime,
   location: string,
   status: MatchStatus,
   homeTeam: { name: string, clubName: string },
   awayTeam: { name: string, clubName: string }
   }
}
```

```
@app/components/buttons/ActionButton.tsx (AB)  @app/components/buttons/IconLabelButton.tsx
  (ILB) I want to do some refactorings of these 2 buttons in such a way that there are visually
  no changes on the screen.

  1. AB should get an optional icon parameter like ILB
  2.
```

Commit message:

refactor: update import paths for test mocks and enhance documentation
This commit refines the import paths for test mocks across the codebase, ensuring consistency by using the new `test/mocks` directory structure. Additionally, it updates documentation to clarify the usage of barrel files and provides guidance on handling circular dependencies in test environments. The changes aim to improve code organization and maintainability, enhancing the developer experience when working with test setups.

TODO.md, after:

# What to do next

## 1. Checks

- non-test environment: replace inline imports like `const { addEmailToOutbox } = await import('test/mocks/handlers/emails.js')`
- do we have direct DOM manipulations in our Playwright tests instead of Page Object Model usage?
- add getServerT() to all modules that deal with server side errors (see users.\_indext.tsx)
   - **Server-Side Translations**: Use `getServerT(request)` in all server
      - actions/loaders for localized error messages and server-generated content;
      - respects user's language preference from cookie
        (see `.cursor/rules/PRD.mdc` around line 643)
- check all translation strings in t() function calls in the codebase for existence. make a list of missing/wrong. use MCP servers for that

## 2. To show a block with 2 teams that are going to play a match, you need:

- From Match model (schema.prisma:121-137):
   - id, date, time, location, status
   - homeTeamId, awayTeamId

- From Team model (schema.prisma:91-105):
   - id, name, clubName, category, division

- Optional from MatchScore model (schema.prisma:139-147):
   - homeTeamScore, awayTeamScore (if match is played)

So the essential data structure would be:

```ts
{
   match: {
   id: string,
   date: DateTime,
   time: DateTime,
   location: string,
   status: MatchStatus,
   homeTeam: { name: string, clubName: string },
   awayTeam: { name: string, clubName: string }
   }
}
```

```
@app/components/buttons/ActionButton.tsx (AB)  @app/components/buttons/IconLabelButton.tsx
  (ILB) I want to do some refactorings of these 2 buttons in such a way that there are visually
  no changes on the screen.

  1. AB should get an optional icon parameter like ILB
  2.
```
