docs/environment-variables.md, before:

# Environment Variables Reference

## Overview

This document provides a complete reference for all environment variables used in Tournado across different environments. Each environment (CI, staging, production) has its own configuration strategy to ensure security and functionality.

## Environment Strategy

### Environment Separation

| Deployment Context      | Purpose                | Firebase Project | Configuration                       |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **CI (GitHub Actions)** | E2E testing            | Dummy values     | Bypasses Firebase authentication    |
| **Development (Local)** | Local development      | `tournado-dev`   | Shares Firebase config with Staging |
| **Staging**             | Testing and acceptance | `tournado-dev`   | Shares Firebase config with Local   |
| **Production**          | Live application       | `tournado-prod`  | Real Firebase for users             |

### Setup Scripts

- **`setup-github-secrets.sh`**: Configures CI environment with dummy values
- **`setup-flyio-secrets.sh`**: Configures Fly.io environments with real values

## Required Environment Variables

### Core Application Variables

#### `SESSION_SECRET`

- **Purpose**: Cookie session encryption
- **Required**: Yes (all environments)
- **Format**: Random hex string (32+ characters)
- **Example**: `daf8e021c28c5e3d29794fa41ab6c84a`
- **Generation**: `openssl rand -hex 32`

#### `SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS`

- **Purpose**: Comma-separated list of admin email addresses with dynamic role assignment
- **Required**: Yes
- **Format**: `email1@domain.com,email2@domain.com`
- **Example**: `admin1@example.com,admin2@example.com`
- **Behavior**: See [Admin Role Management](#admin-role-management) section for details on dynamic role assignment

### Firebase Client Configuration (VITE\_\*)

These variables configure the Firebase client SDK and are exposed to the browser.

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY`

- **Purpose**: Firebase project API key
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy-api-key"`
- **Staging**: Real API key from `tournado-dev` project
- **Production**: Real API key from `tournado-prod` project

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN`

- **Purpose**: Firebase authentication domain
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy.firebaseapp.com"`
- **Staging**: `"tournado-dev.firebaseapp.com"`
- **Production**: `"tournado-prod.firebaseapp.com"`

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID`

- **Purpose**: Firebase project identifier
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy-project"`
- **Staging**: `"tournado-dev"`
- **Production**: `"tournado-prod"`

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET`

- **Purpose**: Firebase storage bucket
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy-project.appspot.com"`
- **Staging**: `"tournado-dev.firebasestorage.app"`
- **Production**: `"tournado-prod.firebasestorage.app"`

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID`

- **Purpose**: Firebase messaging sender ID
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"123456789"`
- **Staging**: Real sender ID from `tournado-dev`
- **Production**: Real sender ID from `tournado-prod`

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID`

- **Purpose**: Firebase web app identifier
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"1:123456789:web:ci-dummy-app-id"`
- **Staging**: Real app ID from `tournado-dev`
- **Production**: Real app ID from `tournado-prod`

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID`

- **Purpose**: Firebase Analytics measurement ID
- **Required**: Optional
- **CI Value**: `"G-CI-DUMMY-ID"`
- **Staging**: `""` (empty, can be configured later)
- **Production**: `""` (empty, can be configured later)

### Firebase Admin Configuration

These variables configure the Firebase Admin SDK for server-side operations.

#### `FIREBASE_ADMIN_PROJECT_ID`

- **Purpose**: Firebase Admin project ID
- **Required**: Yes (server-side)
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy-project"`
- **Staging**: `"tournado-dev"`
- **Production**: `"tournado-prod"`

#### `FIREBASE_ADMIN_CLIENT_EMAIL`

- **Purpose**: Firebase service account email
- **Required**: Yes (server-side)
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy@ci-dummy-project.iam.gserviceaccount.com"`
- **Staging**: Service account email from `tournado-dev`
- **Production**: Service account email from `tournado-prod`

#### `FIREBASE_ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY`

- **Purpose**: Firebase service account private key
- **Required**: Yes (server-side)
- **Format**: PEM format private key with escaped newlines
- **CI Value**: `"-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nCI_DUMMY_PRIVATE_KEY_FOR_TESTING_ONLY\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----"`
- **Staging**: Real private key from `tournado-dev` service account
- **Production**: Real private key from `tournado-prod` service account

### Email Configuration

#### `RESEND_API_KEY`

- **Purpose**: Resend email service API key
- **Required**: Yes
- **Example**: `"re_abc123def456_YourResendKeyHere"`

#### `EMAIL_FROM`

- **Purpose**: Email sender address and name
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"ci-test@example.com"`
- **Staging**: `"Team Registration <staging@resend.dev>"`
- **Production**: `"Team Registration <onboarding@resend.dev>"`

#### `BASE_URL`

- **Purpose**: Base URL for email links
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"http://localhost:8811"`
- **Staging**: `"https://tournado-staging.fly.dev"`
- **Production**: `"https://tournado-production.fly.dev"`

### Database Configuration

#### `DATABASE_URL`

- **Purpose**: Database connection string
- **Required**: Yes
- **Local Dev**: `"file:./prisma/data.db?connection_limit=1"`
- **Local Test**: `"file:./prisma/data-test.db?connection_limit=1"`
- **Production**: `"file:/data/sqlite.db?connection_limit=1"`

### Optional Configuration

#### `PLAYWRIGHT`

- **Purpose**: Indicates Playwright testing environment
- **Required**: No
- **Value**: `"true"` (set automatically during E2E tests)
- **Usage**: Disables secure cookies over HTTP for testing

#### `NODE_ENV`

- **Purpose**: Node.js environment indicator
- **Required**: No (automatically set)
- **Values**: `"development"`, `"production"`, `"test"`

## Security Considerations

### Secret Management

1. **Never commit secrets to version control**
2. **Use environment-specific values** - never share secrets between environments
3. **Rotate secrets regularly**, especially for production
4. **Use minimum required permissions** for service accounts

### CI/CD Security

- **CI uses dummy Firebase values** because E2E tests bypass Firebase authentication
- **Real secrets are never exposed** in CI logs or artifacts
- **GitHub secrets are encrypted** and only accessible during workflow execution

### Production Security

- **Firebase service accounts** have minimal required permissions
- **Session secrets are unique** per environment
- **HTTPS is enforced** in production (secure cookies enabled)

## Setup Instructions

### Initial Setup

1. **Install required tools**:

   ```bash
   # Firebase CLI
   npm install -g firebase-tools
   firebase login

   # GitHub CLI (for secrets)
   brew install gh
   gh auth login
   ```

2. **Set up CI environment (automated)**:

   ```bash
   # Make script executable and run
   chmod +x setup-github-secrets.sh
   ./setup-github-secrets.sh
   ```

3. **Set up Fly.io environments (manual command-line process recommended)**:

   Due to Fly.io authentication token issues and deployment restarts, **running individual `flyctl` commands is more reliable** than using the automated script.

   **Note**: "Manual setup" means running these terminal commands one-by-one, **NOT** using the Fly.io web dashboard UI:

   ```bash
   # First, ensure you're authenticated (may need to re-login)
   fly auth login

   # Then set secrets one by one for staging
   flyctl secrets set SESSION_SECRET="$(openssl rand -hex 32)" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="admin1@domain1.com,admin2@domain2.com" --app tournado-staging

   # Firebase Client secrets (for staging - using tournado-dev project)
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY="YOUR_FIREBASE_API_KEY" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN="tournado-dev.firebaseapp.com" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID="tournado-dev" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET="tournado-dev.firebasestorage.app" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID="YOUR_SENDER_ID" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID="YOUR_FIREBASE_APP_ID" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID="" --app tournado-staging

   # Firebase Admin secrets (copy from your .env file)
   flyctl secrets set FIREBASE_ADMIN_PROJECT_ID="tournado-dev" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set FIREBASE_ADMIN_CLIENT_EMAIL="your-service-account@tournado-dev.iam.gserviceaccount.com" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set FIREBASE_ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY="-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
   [your-private-key]
   -----END PRIVATE KEY-----" --app tournado-staging

   # Email and other config
   flyctl secrets set RESEND_API_KEY="your-resend-key" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set EMAIL_FROM="Team Registration <staging@resend.dev>" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set BASE_URL="https://tournado-staging.fly.dev" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set DATABASE_URL="file:/data/sqlite.db?connection_limit=1" --app tournado-staging

   # Verify all secrets are set correctly
   fly secrets list --app tournado-staging
   ```

   **Why individual command execution is recommended:**
   - Fly.io authentication tokens can expire during script execution
   - Each secret update triggers a deployment restart (can timeout with many secrets)
   - Running commands individually allows you to handle authentication issues per command
   - You can verify each secret is set correctly before proceeding to the next
   - No need to use web UI - everything is done via terminal commands

   **Verification Commands**:

   After setting up secrets, verify they are all configured correctly:

   ```bash
   # Check all secrets for staging
   fly secrets list --app tournado-staging

   # Check all secrets for production
   fly secrets list --app tournado-production

   # Expected secrets for staging/production:
   # SESSION_SECRET, SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS, BASE_URL, DATABASE_URL
   # VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY, VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN, VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID
   # VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET, VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID
   # VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID, VITE_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID
   # FIREBASE_ADMIN_PROJECT_ID, FIREBASE_ADMIN_CLIENT_EMAIL, FIREBASE_ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY
   # RESEND_API_KEY, EMAIL_FROM
   ```

   **Alternative: Use the script as reference**:
   The `setup-flyio-secrets.sh` script is provided as a template in `docs/templates/setup-flyio-secrets.sh.template`, but manual execution of individual commands is more reliable.

### Development Environment (Local)

Ensure your `.env` file has the required variables for local development:

**Important**: Local development and Staging share the same Firebase project (`tournado-dev`) but serve different purposes. They differ only in DATABASE_URL, BASE_URL, and how they're configured:

- **Local**: Uses `.env` file, local database, localhost URLs
- **Staging**: Uses Fly.io secrets, deployed database, staging URLs

```bash
# Core
SESSION_SECRET="your-local-session-secret"
SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="your-email@domain.com"

# Firebase Client (shared with Staging deployment context)
VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY="YOUR_FIREBASE_API_KEY"
VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN="tournado-dev.firebaseapp.com"
VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID="tournado-dev"
VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET="tournado-dev.firebasestorage.app"
VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID="YOUR_SENDER_ID"
VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID="YOUR_FIREBASE_APP_ID"
VITE_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=""

# Firebase Admin (shared with Staging deployment context)
FIREBASE_ADMIN_PROJECT_ID="tournado-dev"
FIREBASE_ADMIN_CLIENT_EMAIL="[service-account-email]"
FIREBASE_ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY="[service-account-private-key]"

# Local development specific settings (different from Staging deployment)
DATABASE_URL="file:./prisma/data.db?connection_limit=1"
BASE_URL="http://localhost:5173"
EMAIL_FROM="Local Dev <dev@example.com>"
RESEND_API_KEY="[your-resend-key]"  # Optional for local development
```

### Service Account Setup

For each Firebase project, create a service account:

1. Go to [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com)
2. Select your project (`tournado-dev` or `tournado-prod`)
3. Go to Project Settings → Service Accounts
4. Click "Generate new private key"
5. Download the JSON file
6. Extract the `client_email` and `private_key` values

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### "SESSION_SECRET must be set"

- **Cause**: Missing or invalid session secret
- **Solution**: Ensure `SESSION_SECRET` is set in all environments

#### "Firebase Admin not initialized"

- **Cause**: Invalid Firebase Admin configuration
- **Solution**: Check `FIREBASE_ADMIN_*` variables are correctly set

#### Authentication failures in CI

- **Cause**: CI trying to use real Firebase instead of mocks
- **Solution**: Verify CI uses dummy Firebase values from setup script

#### Secure cookie issues in development

- **Cause**: HTTPS required for secure cookies
- **Solution**: Either use HTTPS locally or ensure `PLAYWRIGHT=true` is set for tests

### Environment-Specific Debugging

#### CI Environment

- Check GitHub Actions secrets are set correctly
- Verify dummy Firebase values are being used
- Ensure `PLAYWRIGHT=true` is set during E2E tests

#### Staging Environment

- Verify Fly.io secrets are set: `fly secrets list --app tournado-staging`
- Check Firebase project permissions for `tournado-dev`
- Test authentication with staging Firebase project

#### Production Environment

- Verify Fly.io secrets are set: `fly secrets list --app tournado-production`
- Check Firebase project permissions for `tournado-prod`
- Monitor logs for authentication errors: `fly logs --app tournado-production`

## Admin Role Management

### Overview

Tournado implements **dynamic admin role assignment** that updates user roles on every login based on the `SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS` environment variable. This provides zero-touch admin management without requiring manual database updates.

See [ADR-003: Dynamic Admin Role Assignment](../.cursor/rules/adr-003-dynamic-admin-roles.mdc) for the full architectural decision.

### How It Works

1. **On Every Login**: The system checks if the user's email is in `SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS`
2. **Promotion**: If email is added to the list → user promoted to ADMIN on next login
3. **Demotion**: If email is removed from the list → admin demoted to MANAGER on next login
4. **Role Preservation**: Non-admin users (MANAGER, REFEREE, PUBLIC) keep their existing roles

### Granting Admin Access

To grant admin access to a user:

1. **Update environment variable** for the target environment:

   ```bash
   # Local development (.env file)
   SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="existing-admin@domain.com,new-admin@domain.com"

   # Staging (Fly.io)
   flyctl secrets set SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="existing-admin@domain.com,new-admin@domain.com" --app tournado-staging

   # Production (Fly.io)
   flyctl secrets set SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="existing-admin@domain.com,new-admin@domain.com" --app tournado-production
   ```

2. **User logs in again** → automatically promoted to ADMIN role

**Notes**:

- No database migration needed for new admins
- User must log in after the change for promotion to take effect
- If user doesn't exist yet, they'll be created with ADMIN role on first login

### Revoking Admin Access

To revoke admin access from a user:

1. **Remove email from environment variable**:

   ```bash
   # Local development (.env file)
   SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="remaining-admin@domain.com"

   # Staging (Fly.io)
   flyctl secrets set SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="remaining-admin@domain.com" --app tournado-staging

   # Production (Fly.io)
   flyctl secrets set SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="remaining-admin@domain.com" --app tournado-production
   ```

2. **User logs in again** → automatically demoted from ADMIN to MANAGER

**Important**:

- Admin users are demoted to MANAGER (not PUBLIC)
- This preserves their ability to manage teams/tournaments
- If you need complete access removal, manually update role to PUBLIC via database

### One-Time Migration for Existing Users

When deploying the dynamic role assignment feature, run the migration script once to sync existing users:

```bash
# Local development
pnpm migrate:admin-roles

# Staging
fly ssh console --app tournado-staging -C "pnpm migrate:admin-roles"

# Production
fly ssh console --app tournado-production -C "pnpm migrate:admin-roles"
```

**What the migration does**:

- Promotes users in `SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS` to ADMIN
- Demotes admins not in `SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS` to MANAGER
- Shows summary of all changes

**Note**: This is a one-time operation. After initial deployment, role changes happen automatically on login.

### Environment-Specific Behavior

| Environment    | Configuration Method | When Changes Take Effect     |
| -------------- | -------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| **Local**      | `.env` file          | Next login after dev restart |
| **Staging**    | Fly.io secrets       | Next login after deploy      |
| **Production** | Fly.io secrets       | Next login after deploy      |

**Important for Local Development**:

- After updating `.env`, completely restart the dev server
- Kill existing processes: `lsof -ti:5173 | xargs kill -9`
- Then start fresh: `pnpm dev`

### Admin Role Matrix

Current admin configuration:

| Email                | Auth Method    | Role    | Environment              |
| -------------------- | -------------- | ------- | ------------------------ |
| `admin1@example.com` | Google OAuth   | ADMIN   | All                      |
| `admin2@example.com` | Email/Password | ADMIN   | All                      |
| `user@example.com`   | Email/Password | MANAGER | All (demoted from ADMIN) |

### Security Considerations

✅ **Benefits**:

- Admin access can be revoked instantly (takes effect on next login)
- No manual database access needed
- Consistent state across environments
- Audit trail via console logs

⚠️ **Limitations**:

- Role changes don't take effect until user logs in
- Demoted users retain MANAGER role (not PUBLIC)
- No email notification when roles change

## Related Documentation

- [Deployment Overview](deployment/overview.md) - Environment setup and deployment process
- [Authentication Guide](development/authentication.md) - Firebase authentication implementation
- [E2E Testing Strategy](testing/e2e-firebase-strategy.md) - Testing approach and rationale
- [ADR-003: Dynamic Admin Role Assignment](../.cursor/rules/adr-003-dynamic-admin-roles.mdc) - Architectural decision
- [Setup Scripts](../setup-github-secrets.sh) - Automated CI setup
- [Setup Scripts](../setup-flyio-secrets.sh) - Automated Fly.io setup

#environment-variables #firebase #deployment #security #configuration

Commit message:

feat: add environment variable for Admin Dashboard URL and update related configurations
This commit introduces the `VITE_ADMIN_DASHBOARD_URL` environment variable, allowing for customizable obfuscated paths for the Admin Dashboard. The default URL is set to `/a7k9m2x5p8w1n4q6r3y8b5t1`, with the option to change it per environment for enhanced security and flexibility. Updates include modifications to the application constants, TypeScript type definitions, and documentation to reflect this new configuration. Additionally, various routes and tests are updated to utilize the new environment variable, ensuring consistent access to the Admin Dashboard across different environments.

docs/environment-variables.md, after:

# Environment Variables Reference

## Overview

This document provides a complete reference for all environment variables used in Tournado across different environments. Each environment (CI, staging, production) has its own configuration strategy to ensure security and functionality.

## Environment Strategy

### Environment Separation

| Deployment Context      | Purpose                | Firebase Project | Configuration                       |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **CI (GitHub Actions)** | E2E testing            | Dummy values     | Bypasses Firebase authentication    |
| **Development (Local)** | Local development      | `tournado-dev`   | Shares Firebase config with Staging |
| **Staging**             | Testing and acceptance | `tournado-dev`   | Shares Firebase config with Local   |
| **Production**          | Live application       | `tournado-prod`  | Real Firebase for users             |

### Setup Scripts

- **`setup-github-secrets.sh`**: Configures CI environment with dummy values
- **`setup-flyio-secrets.sh`**: Configures Fly.io environments with real values

## Required Environment Variables

### Core Application Variables

#### `SESSION_SECRET`

- **Purpose**: Cookie session encryption
- **Required**: Yes (all environments)
- **Format**: Random hex string (32+ characters)
- **Example**: `daf8e021c28c5e3d29794fa41ab6c84a`
- **Generation**: `openssl rand -hex 32`

#### `SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS`

- **Purpose**: Comma-separated list of admin email addresses with dynamic role assignment
- **Required**: Yes
- **Format**: `email1@domain.com,email2@domain.com`
- **Example**: `admin1@example.com,admin2@example.com`
- **Behavior**: See [Admin Role Management](#admin-role-management) section for details on dynamic role assignment

### Firebase Client Configuration (VITE\_\*)

These variables configure the Firebase client SDK and are exposed to the browser.

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY`

- **Purpose**: Firebase project API key
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy-api-key"`
- **Staging**: Real API key from `tournado-dev` project
- **Production**: Real API key from `tournado-prod` project

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN`

- **Purpose**: Firebase authentication domain
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy.firebaseapp.com"`
- **Staging**: `"tournado-dev.firebaseapp.com"`
- **Production**: `"tournado-prod.firebaseapp.com"`

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID`

- **Purpose**: Firebase project identifier
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy-project"`
- **Staging**: `"tournado-dev"`
- **Production**: `"tournado-prod"`

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET`

- **Purpose**: Firebase storage bucket
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy-project.appspot.com"`
- **Staging**: `"tournado-dev.firebasestorage.app"`
- **Production**: `"tournado-prod.firebasestorage.app"`

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID`

- **Purpose**: Firebase messaging sender ID
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"123456789"`
- **Staging**: Real sender ID from `tournado-dev`
- **Production**: Real sender ID from `tournado-prod`

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID`

- **Purpose**: Firebase web app identifier
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"1:123456789:web:ci-dummy-app-id"`
- **Staging**: Real app ID from `tournado-dev`
- **Production**: Real app ID from `tournado-prod`

#### `VITE_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID`

- **Purpose**: Firebase Analytics measurement ID
- **Required**: Optional
- **CI Value**: `"G-CI-DUMMY-ID"`
- **Staging**: `""` (empty, can be configured later)
- **Production**: `""` (empty, can be configured later)

#### `VITE_ADMIN_DASHBOARD_URL`

- **Purpose**: Admin dashboard obfuscated URL path
- **Required**: Optional (defaults to `/a7k9m2x5p8w1n4q6r3y8b5t1`)
- **Format**: URL path starting with `/`
- **CI Value**: Not set (uses default)
- **Staging**: Not set (uses default, can be customized per environment)
- **Production**: Not set (uses default, can be customized for security rotation)
- **Security Note**: Can be changed per environment for additional security or rotated without code changes if URL is discovered

**Example**:

```bash
# Custom obfuscated path
VITE_ADMIN_DASHBOARD_URL="/x9p2m5k8n3w7q1r4y6b8t2a5"
```

**Use Case**: When you need to rotate the admin URL for security (e.g., discovered by bots, security incident) or want different URLs per environment without code changes.

### Firebase Admin Configuration

These variables configure the Firebase Admin SDK for server-side operations.

#### `FIREBASE_ADMIN_PROJECT_ID`

- **Purpose**: Firebase Admin project ID
- **Required**: Yes (server-side)
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy-project"`
- **Staging**: `"tournado-dev"`
- **Production**: `"tournado-prod"`

#### `FIREBASE_ADMIN_CLIENT_EMAIL`

- **Purpose**: Firebase service account email
- **Required**: Yes (server-side)
- **CI Value**: `"ci-dummy@ci-dummy-project.iam.gserviceaccount.com"`
- **Staging**: Service account email from `tournado-dev`
- **Production**: Service account email from `tournado-prod`

#### `FIREBASE_ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY`

- **Purpose**: Firebase service account private key
- **Required**: Yes (server-side)
- **Format**: PEM format private key with escaped newlines
- **CI Value**: `"-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nCI_DUMMY_PRIVATE_KEY_FOR_TESTING_ONLY\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----"`
- **Staging**: Real private key from `tournado-dev` service account
- **Production**: Real private key from `tournado-prod` service account

### Email Configuration

#### `RESEND_API_KEY`

- **Purpose**: Resend email service API key
- **Required**: Yes
- **Example**: `"re_abc123def456_YourResendKeyHere"`

#### `EMAIL_FROM`

- **Purpose**: Email sender address and name
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"ci-test@example.com"`
- **Staging**: `"Team Registration <staging@resend.dev>"`
- **Production**: `"Team Registration <onboarding@resend.dev>"`

#### `BASE_URL`

- **Purpose**: Base URL for email links
- **Required**: Yes
- **CI Value**: `"http://localhost:8811"`
- **Staging**: `"https://tournado-staging.fly.dev"`
- **Production**: `"https://tournado-production.fly.dev"`

### Database Configuration

#### `DATABASE_URL`

- **Purpose**: Database connection string
- **Required**: Yes
- **Local Dev**: `"file:./prisma/data.db?connection_limit=1"`
- **Local Test**: `"file:./prisma/data-test.db?connection_limit=1"`
- **Production**: `"file:/data/sqlite.db?connection_limit=1"`

### Optional Configuration

#### `PLAYWRIGHT`

- **Purpose**: Indicates Playwright testing environment
- **Required**: No
- **Value**: `"true"` (set automatically during E2E tests)
- **Usage**: Disables secure cookies over HTTP for testing

#### `NODE_ENV`

- **Purpose**: Node.js environment indicator
- **Required**: No (automatically set)
- **Values**: `"development"`, `"production"`, `"test"`

## Security Considerations

### Secret Management

1. **Never commit secrets to version control**
2. **Use environment-specific values** - never share secrets between environments
3. **Rotate secrets regularly**, especially for production
4. **Use minimum required permissions** for service accounts

### CI/CD Security

- **CI uses dummy Firebase values** because E2E tests bypass Firebase authentication
- **Real secrets are never exposed** in CI logs or artifacts
- **GitHub secrets are encrypted** and only accessible during workflow execution

### Production Security

- **Firebase service accounts** have minimal required permissions
- **Session secrets are unique** per environment
- **HTTPS is enforced** in production (secure cookies enabled)

## Setup Instructions

### Initial Setup

1. **Install required tools**:

   ```bash
   # Firebase CLI
   npm install -g firebase-tools
   firebase login

   # GitHub CLI (for secrets)
   brew install gh
   gh auth login
   ```

2. **Set up CI environment (automated)**:

   ```bash
   # Make script executable and run
   chmod +x setup-github-secrets.sh
   ./setup-github-secrets.sh
   ```

3. **Set up Fly.io environments (manual command-line process recommended)**:

   Due to Fly.io authentication token issues and deployment restarts, **running individual `flyctl` commands is more reliable** than using the automated script.

   **Note**: "Manual setup" means running these terminal commands one-by-one, **NOT** using the Fly.io web dashboard UI:

   ```bash
   # First, ensure you're authenticated (may need to re-login)
   fly auth login

   # Then set secrets one by one for staging
   flyctl secrets set SESSION_SECRET="$(openssl rand -hex 32)" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="admin1@domain1.com,admin2@domain2.com" --app tournado-staging

   # Firebase Client secrets (for staging - using tournado-dev project)
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY="YOUR_FIREBASE_API_KEY" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN="tournado-dev.firebaseapp.com" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID="tournado-dev" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET="tournado-dev.firebasestorage.app" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID="YOUR_SENDER_ID" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID="YOUR_FIREBASE_APP_ID" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set VITE_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID="" --app tournado-staging

   # Firebase Admin secrets (copy from your .env file)
   flyctl secrets set FIREBASE_ADMIN_PROJECT_ID="tournado-dev" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set FIREBASE_ADMIN_CLIENT_EMAIL="your-service-account@tournado-dev.iam.gserviceaccount.com" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set FIREBASE_ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY="-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
   [your-private-key]
   -----END PRIVATE KEY-----" --app tournado-staging

   # Email and other config
   flyctl secrets set RESEND_API_KEY="your-resend-key" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set EMAIL_FROM="Team Registration <staging@resend.dev>" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set BASE_URL="https://tournado-staging.fly.dev" --app tournado-staging
   flyctl secrets set DATABASE_URL="file:/data/sqlite.db?connection_limit=1" --app tournado-staging

   # Verify all secrets are set correctly
   fly secrets list --app tournado-staging
   ```

   **Why individual command execution is recommended:**
   - Fly.io authentication tokens can expire during script execution
   - Each secret update triggers a deployment restart (can timeout with many secrets)
   - Running commands individually allows you to handle authentication issues per command
   - You can verify each secret is set correctly before proceeding to the next
   - No need to use web UI - everything is done via terminal commands

   **Verification Commands**:

   After setting up secrets, verify they are all configured correctly:

   ```bash
   # Check all secrets for staging
   fly secrets list --app tournado-staging

   # Check all secrets for production
   fly secrets list --app tournado-production

   # Expected secrets for staging/production:
   # SESSION_SECRET, SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS, BASE_URL, DATABASE_URL
   # VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY, VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN, VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID
   # VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET, VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID
   # VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID, VITE_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID
   # FIREBASE_ADMIN_PROJECT_ID, FIREBASE_ADMIN_CLIENT_EMAIL, FIREBASE_ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY
   # RESEND_API_KEY, EMAIL_FROM
   ```

   **Alternative: Use the script as reference**:
   The `setup-flyio-secrets.sh` script is provided as a template in `docs/templates/setup-flyio-secrets.sh.template`, but manual execution of individual commands is more reliable.

### Development Environment (Local)

Ensure your `.env` file has the required variables for local development:

**Important**: Local development and Staging share the same Firebase project (`tournado-dev`) but serve different purposes. They differ only in DATABASE_URL, BASE_URL, and how they're configured:

- **Local**: Uses `.env` file, local database, localhost URLs
- **Staging**: Uses Fly.io secrets, deployed database, staging URLs

```bash
# Core
SESSION_SECRET="your-local-session-secret"
SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="your-email@domain.com"

# Firebase Client (shared with Staging deployment context)
VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY="YOUR_FIREBASE_API_KEY"
VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN="tournado-dev.firebaseapp.com"
VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID="tournado-dev"
VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET="tournado-dev.firebasestorage.app"
VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID="YOUR_SENDER_ID"
VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID="YOUR_FIREBASE_APP_ID"
VITE_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=""

# Firebase Admin (shared with Staging deployment context)
FIREBASE_ADMIN_PROJECT_ID="tournado-dev"
FIREBASE_ADMIN_CLIENT_EMAIL="[service-account-email]"
FIREBASE_ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY="[service-account-private-key]"

# Local development specific settings (different from Staging deployment)
DATABASE_URL="file:./prisma/data.db?connection_limit=1"
BASE_URL="http://localhost:5173"
EMAIL_FROM="Local Dev <dev@example.com>"
RESEND_API_KEY="[your-resend-key]"  # Optional for local development
```

### Service Account Setup

For each Firebase project, create a service account:

1. Go to [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com)
2. Select your project (`tournado-dev` or `tournado-prod`)
3. Go to Project Settings → Service Accounts
4. Click "Generate new private key"
5. Download the JSON file
6. Extract the `client_email` and `private_key` values

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### "SESSION_SECRET must be set"

- **Cause**: Missing or invalid session secret
- **Solution**: Ensure `SESSION_SECRET` is set in all environments

#### "Firebase Admin not initialized"

- **Cause**: Invalid Firebase Admin configuration
- **Solution**: Check `FIREBASE_ADMIN_*` variables are correctly set

#### Authentication failures in CI

- **Cause**: CI trying to use real Firebase instead of mocks
- **Solution**: Verify CI uses dummy Firebase values from setup script

#### Secure cookie issues in development

- **Cause**: HTTPS required for secure cookies
- **Solution**: Either use HTTPS locally or ensure `PLAYWRIGHT=true` is set for tests

### Environment-Specific Debugging

#### CI Environment

- Check GitHub Actions secrets are set correctly
- Verify dummy Firebase values are being used
- Ensure `PLAYWRIGHT=true` is set during E2E tests

#### Staging Environment

- Verify Fly.io secrets are set: `fly secrets list --app tournado-staging`
- Check Firebase project permissions for `tournado-dev`
- Test authentication with staging Firebase project

#### Production Environment

- Verify Fly.io secrets are set: `fly secrets list --app tournado-production`
- Check Firebase project permissions for `tournado-prod`
- Monitor logs for authentication errors: `fly logs --app tournado-production`

## Admin Role Management

### Overview

Tournado implements **dynamic admin role assignment** that updates user roles on every login based on the `SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS` environment variable. This provides zero-touch admin management without requiring manual database updates.

See [ADR-003: Dynamic Admin Role Assignment](../.cursor/rules/adr-003-dynamic-admin-roles.mdc) for the full architectural decision.

### How It Works

1. **On Every Login**: The system checks if the user's email is in `SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS`
2. **Promotion**: If email is added to the list → user promoted to ADMIN on next login
3. **Demotion**: If email is removed from the list → admin demoted to MANAGER on next login
4. **Role Preservation**: Non-admin users (MANAGER, REFEREE, PUBLIC) keep their existing roles

### Granting Admin Access

To grant admin access to a user:

1. **Update environment variable** for the target environment:

   ```bash
   # Local development (.env file)
   SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="existing-admin@domain.com,new-admin@domain.com"

   # Staging (Fly.io)
   flyctl secrets set SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="existing-admin@domain.com,new-admin@domain.com" --app tournado-staging

   # Production (Fly.io)
   flyctl secrets set SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="existing-admin@domain.com,new-admin@domain.com" --app tournado-production
   ```

2. **User logs in again** → automatically promoted to ADMIN role

**Notes**:

- No database migration needed for new admins
- User must log in after the change for promotion to take effect
- If user doesn't exist yet, they'll be created with ADMIN role on first login

### Revoking Admin Access

To revoke admin access from a user:

1. **Remove email from environment variable**:

   ```bash
   # Local development (.env file)
   SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="remaining-admin@domain.com"

   # Staging (Fly.io)
   flyctl secrets set SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="remaining-admin@domain.com" --app tournado-staging

   # Production (Fly.io)
   flyctl secrets set SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS="remaining-admin@domain.com" --app tournado-production
   ```

2. **User logs in again** → automatically demoted from ADMIN to MANAGER

**Important**:

- Admin users are demoted to MANAGER (not PUBLIC)
- This preserves their ability to manage teams/tournaments
- If you need complete access removal, manually update role to PUBLIC via database

### One-Time Migration for Existing Users

When deploying the dynamic role assignment feature, run the migration script once to sync existing users:

```bash
# Local development
pnpm migrate:admin-roles

# Staging
fly ssh console --app tournado-staging -C "pnpm migrate:admin-roles"

# Production
fly ssh console --app tournado-production -C "pnpm migrate:admin-roles"
```

**What the migration does**:

- Promotes users in `SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS` to ADMIN
- Demotes admins not in `SUPER_ADMIN_EMAILS` to MANAGER
- Shows summary of all changes

**Note**: This is a one-time operation. After initial deployment, role changes happen automatically on login.

### Environment-Specific Behavior

| Environment    | Configuration Method | When Changes Take Effect     |
| -------------- | -------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| **Local**      | `.env` file          | Next login after dev restart |
| **Staging**    | Fly.io secrets       | Next login after deploy      |
| **Production** | Fly.io secrets       | Next login after deploy      |

**Important for Local Development**:

- After updating `.env`, completely restart the dev server
- Kill existing processes: `lsof -ti:5173 | xargs kill -9`
- Then start fresh: `pnpm dev`

### Admin Role Matrix

Current admin configuration:

| Email                | Auth Method    | Role    | Environment              |
| -------------------- | -------------- | ------- | ------------------------ |
| `admin1@example.com` | Google OAuth   | ADMIN   | All                      |
| `admin2@example.com` | Email/Password | ADMIN   | All                      |
| `user@example.com`   | Email/Password | MANAGER | All (demoted from ADMIN) |

### Security Considerations

✅ **Benefits**:

- Admin access can be revoked instantly (takes effect on next login)
- No manual database access needed
- Consistent state across environments
- Audit trail via console logs

⚠️ **Limitations**:

- Role changes don't take effect until user logs in
- Demoted users retain MANAGER role (not PUBLIC)
- No email notification when roles change

## Related Documentation

- [Deployment Overview](deployment/overview.md) - Environment setup and deployment process
- [Authentication Guide](development/authentication.md) - Firebase authentication implementation
- [E2E Testing Strategy](testing/e2e-firebase-strategy.md) - Testing approach and rationale
- [ADR-003: Dynamic Admin Role Assignment](../.cursor/rules/adr-003-dynamic-admin-roles.mdc) - Architectural decision
- [Setup Scripts](../setup-github-secrets.sh) - Automated CI setup
- [Setup Scripts](../setup-flyio-secrets.sh) - Automated Fly.io setup

#environment-variables #firebase #deployment #security #configuration
